Interleukin-9 (IL-9) has been shown to be upregulated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The exact role of IL-9 has not yet been effectively studied. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown a promising immunomodulatory role towards repairing cartilage and restoring joint function. One of the key problems influencing the therapeutic efficacy of stem cell therapy is the poor cell survival following transplantation. This is attributed to oxidative and inflammatory stresses at the injured sites. Hesperidin (Hsd), a flavanone present in citrus fruits, has been studied as potential therapeutic agents that have anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. The objective of this study is to evaluate the therapeutic paracrine action of bone marrow MSCs on the IL-9 level in adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) and the enhancement effect of Hsd on transplanted MSCs. Articular tissue inflammation and cartilage damage were assessed by histological scoring. Antinuclear autoantibodies, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), IL-9, IL-4, interferon gamma (IFN-δ), and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-β1), as well as malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels, were assessed in spleen tissue homogenates after treatment with MSCs either alone or combined with Hsd for 4 weeks in an AIA rat model. Results of this study confirmed that MSCs decreased IL-9 levels in AIA and provide novel insights into the application of Hsd on MSC-based treatments. Highlights Adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) is one of the most widely used models that has a great similarity to rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Few studies in recent years have estimated IL-9 in rheumatic diseases and it remains an understudied cytokine. For the first time, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) therapy has a vital role in splenocytes IL-9 level and further studies are required. Combined therapy of MSCs with antioxidants as hesperidin (Hsd) can alleviate oxidative stress and enhance stem cells immunomodulatory action.