Prolactin (PRL) is a hormone-cytokine that has been involved in autoimmunity due to its immunoregulatory and lymphoproliferative effects. It is produced by various extrapituitary sites including immune cells, under control of a superdistal promoter that contains a single nucleotide polymorphism -1149 G/T previously associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) susceptibility in European population. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of the extrapituitary PRL -1149 G/T promoter polymorphism with clinical parameters, clinical activity and disability indices in RA patients from Western Mexico and to analyze the PRL mRNA expression according to the PRL -1149 G/T promoter polymorphism in total leucocytes from RA patients and controls. We conducted a case-control study that included 258 RA patients and 333 control subjects (CS). The DNA samples were genotyped using the PCR-RFLP method and the PRL mRNA expression was determined by quantitative real time PCR. PRL serum levels and antibodies to cyclic citrullinated peptides (anti-CCP) were measured with ELISA. We found significant differences in the genotype (p=0.022) and allelic (p=0.046) distribution of the polymorphism between RA patients and control subjects. According to the dominant genetic model, there is an association between the T allele (GT+TT genotypes) and decreased RA susceptibility in comparison to the G allele carriers (GG genotype) (OR 0.64, 95% CI 0.45-0.92; p=0.011). The T allele carriers (GT+TT genotypes) had lower titers of anti-CCP antibodies in comparison to the G allele carriers (GG genotype) (median, 66 U/mL vs. 125 U/mL; p=0.03). Furthermore, the GG homozygotes had higher PRL mRNA expression in comparison to the GT heterozygotes, and this latter with respect to the TT homozygotes, in both groups (RA: 1>0.72>0.19; CS: 1>0.54>0.28). However, PRL serum levels were similar in both groups. Our results suggest that the PRL -1149 T allele is a genetic marker for decreased RA susceptibility and is associated with lower titers of anti-CCP antibodies in Mexican population. We also suggest influence of genotype upon PRL mRNA expression.