The study aims to analyse the clinical and immunological manifestations of paediatric antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) in patients, based on the 2006 revised classification criteria of definite APS. Fifty-eight paediatric patients with APS were enrolled and analysed retrospectively. A total of 37 female and 21 male patients with a mean age of 14 ± 3 years at disease onset were included. Fourteen (24%) cases were primary APS, and 40 (69%) cases were secondary to systemic lupus erythaematosus (SLE). Anti-nuclear antibody (ANA) positivity and hypocomplementemia were more common in secondary APS than in primary APS. The most common manifestations of thrombosis were deep vein thrombosis of the lower extremities (25 cases, 37%). Non-thrombotic manifestations were mainly immunologic thrombocytopenia, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, skin lesions, arthritis, pulmonary hypertension, heart valve vegetations and spontaneous abortion. LA, ACL and anti-β2GPI were positive in 42 (95%), 28 (64%) and 34 (77%) cases, respectively. Over half (23 cases, 52%) of the patients were triple-positive for antiphospholipid (aPL) antibodies. Among patients with single-positive LA and anti-β2GPI, the proportion with venous thrombosis was 100% (5 cases) and 0% (0 cases), respectively. The arterial thrombosis proportions were 22% (5 cases), 21% (3 cases) and 14% (1 case) in the triple-, double- and single-aPL-positive groups, respectively (P > 0.05). Fifty-three (91%) cases were followed up for 3 to 140 months, with a median time of 32 months. Seven (13%) cases had recurrences or appearances of thrombosis during follow-up, all of which were double- or triple-aPL positive. APS in the paediatric patients is mostly secondary to SLE. ANA positivity and hypocomplementemia are more common in secondary APS, but there are no differences in the other clinical manifestations between the primary and secondary APS groups. Deep vein thrombosis is the most common thrombotic event. Positive LA may increase the risk of venous thrombosis. Multiple-aPL positivity does not increase the proportion of thrombosis. Long-term anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy is needed to prevent thrombosis recurrence in double- or triple-positive aPL cases.