Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune syndrome characterized by autoantibodies to nuclear constituents. Some of these antibodies are diagnostically important, whereas others act as disease-modifying factors. One clinically important factor is autoantibodies against dsDNA and nucleosomes, which have overlapping diagnostic and nephritogenic impact in SLE. Although a scientific focus for 5 decades, the molecular and cellular origin of these antibodies, and why they are associated with lupus nephritis, is still not fully understood. A consensus has, however, evolved that antibodies to dsDNA and nucleosomes are central pathogenic factors in the development of lupus nephritis. In contrast, no agreement has been reached as to which glomerular structures are bound by nephritogenic anti-nucleosome antibodies in vivo. Mutually contradictory paradigms and models have evolved simply because we still lack precise and conclusive data to provide definitive insight into how autoantibodies induce lupus nephritis and which specificity is critical in the nephritic process(es). In this review, data demonstrating the central role of nucleosomes in inducing and binding potentially nephritogenic antibodies to DNA and nucleosomes are presented and discussed. These autoimmune-inducing processes are discussed in the context of Matzinger's danger model (Matzinger P: Friendly and dangerous signals: is the tissue in control? Nat Immunol 2007, 8:11-13; Matzinger P: The danger model: a renewed sense of self. Science 2002, 296:301-305; Matzinger P: Tolerance, danger, and the extended family. Annu Rev Immunol 1994, 12:991-1045) and Medzhitov's and Janeway's (Medzhitov R, Janeway CA Jr: Decoding the patterns of self and nonself by the innate immune system. Science 2002, 296:298-300; Medzhitov R, Janeway CA Jr: How does the immune system distinguish self from nonself? Semin Immunol 2000, 12:185-188; Janeway CA Jr, Medzhitov R: Innate immune recognition. Annu Rev Immunol 2002, 20:197-216) distinction of noninfectious self (NIS) and infectious nonself (INS). The mechanisms leading to production of potentially nephritogenic anti-nucleosome antibodies and to overt lupus nephritis are interpreted in the context of these paradigms.