Gut microbiota dysbiosis has been observed in a number of autoimmune diseases. However, the role of gut microbiota in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a prototypical autoimmune disease characterized by persistent inflammation in multiple organs of the body, remains elusive. Here we report the dynamics of gut microbiota in a murine lupus model, NZB/W F1, as well as intestinal dysbiosis in a small group of SLE patients with active disease. The composition of gut microbiota changed markedly before and after the onset of lupus disease in NZB/W F1 mice, with higher diversity and increased representation of several bacterial species as lupus progressed from pre-disease to the diseased stage. However, we did not control for age and the cage effect. Using dexamethasone as an intervention to treat SLE-like signs, we also found that a higher abundance of a group of Lactobacilli (to which a species assignment could not be made) in the gut microbiota might be correlated with more severe disease in NZB/W F1 mice. Results of the human study suggest that, compared to controls without immune-mediated diseases, SLE patients with active lupus disease possessed an altered gut microbiota that was different in several particular bacterial species (within the genera Odoribacter, Blautia and unnamed genus under the family Rikenellaceae), less diverse, and with increased representation of Gram-negative bacteria. The ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes was not different between SLE microbiota and Non-SLE controls in our human cohort.Importance Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex autoimmune disease with no known cure. Dysbiosis of gut microbiota has been reported in both mouse and human with SLE. However, as an emerging field more studies are required to delineate the roles of gut microbiota in different lupus-prone mouse models and people with diverse manifestations of SLE. Here, we report changes of gut microbiota in NZB/W F1 lupus-prone mice and a group of SLE patients with active disease.